page 101 to 117

My Answers:

1  - B [FAIL]
2  - B [OK]
3  - C [FAIL]
4  - B [FAIL]
5  - B [OK]
6  - C [OK]
7  - B [OK] book isn't correct
8  - A [OK] with public in lower case
9  - A [FAIL]
10 - A [OK]
11 - C [FAIL] AMBIGUOUS
12 - D [OK]
13 - B [] REVIEW
14 - A [OK]
15 - B []
16 - D [] REVIEW
17 - D [OK]
18 - A ??[OK] REVIEW
19 - D []
20 - C []
21 - C [OK] REVIEW
22 - D [OK]
23 - B [OK]
24 - D []
25 - A [OK]
26 - D [OK]
27 - B [OK]
28 - C [OK]
29 - A [OK]
30 - C [OK]
31 - B []
32 - C []
33 - D []
34 - D [] REVIEW
35 - C [OK]
36 - B []
37 - D [OK]
38 - D []
39 - D [] REVIEW
40 - B [OK]
41 - C [OK]
42 - D [OK]
43 - B []
44 - D [OK]
45 - D [OK]
46 - A [OK] REVIEW
47 - B [] REVIEW
48 - A [OK]
49 - B [OK]
50 - A []

26/50 = 52.00% [FAILED]

Incorrect Answer.

Answers page 450

1. C. The protected modifier allows access by subclasses and members within the same
package, while the package-private modifier allows access only to members in the
same package. Therefore, the protected access modifier allows access to everything
the package-private access modifier, plus subclasses, making Option C the correct
answer. Options A, B, and D are incorrect because the first term is a more restrictive
access modifier than the second term.

3. D. The sell() method does not compile because it does not return a value if both of
the if-then statements’ conditional expressions evaluate to false. While logically, it is
true that price is either less than 10 or greater than or equal to 10, the compiler does
not know that. It just knows that if both if-then statements evaluate.

4. D. The three overloaded versions of nested() compile without issue, since each
method takes a different set of input arguments, making Options B and C incorrect.
The code does not compile, though, due to the first line of the main() method, making
Option A incorrect. The no-argument version of the nested() method does not return
a value, and trying to output a void return type in the print() method throws an
exception at runtime.

[super() and this() are excluyent]
7. B. Options A, C, and D are true statements about calling this() inside a constructor.
Option B is incorrect because a constructor can only call this() or super() on the first
line of the constructor, but never both in the same constructor. If both constructors
were allowed to be called, there would be two separate calls to super(), leading to
duplicate initialization of parent constructors, since the other constructor referenced
by this() would also call super() (or be chained to one that eventually calls super()).

[option B is long not public access modifier]
8. B. Option A is incorrect because the public access modifier starts with a lowercase
letter. Options C and D are incorrect because the return types, void and String, are
incompatible with the method body that returns an integer value of 10. Option B is
correct and has package-private access. It also uses a return type of Long that the
integer value of 10 can be easily assigned to without an explicit cast.

9. C. The only variables always available to all instances of the class are those declared
static; therefore, Option C is the correct answer. Option A may seem correct, but
public variables are only available if a reference to the object is maintained among all
instances. Option B is incorrect because there is no local keyword in Java. Option D is
also incorrect because a private instance variable is only accessible within the
instance that created it.

11. B. Options A, C, and D are true statements. In particular, Option C allows us to write
the equals() methods between two objects that compare private attributes of the
class. Option D is true because protected access also provides package-private access.
Option B is false. Package-private attributes are only visible if the two classes are in
the same package, regardless of whether one extends the other.

12. D. The class data, stuff, is declared public, allowing any class to modify the stuff
variable and making the implementation inherently unsafe for encapsulation.
Therefore, there are no values that can be placed in the two blanks to ensure the class
properly encapsulates its data, making Option D correct. Note that if stuff was
declared private, Options A, B, and C would all be correct. Encapsulation does not
require JavaBean syntax, just that the internal attributes are protected from outside
access, which all of these sets of values do achieve.

13. C. Option A is incorrect because Java only inserts a no-argument constructor if there
are no other constructors in the class. Option B is incorrect because the parent can
have a default no-argument constructor, which is inserted by the compiler and
accessible in the child class. Finally, Option D is incorrect. A class that contains two
no-argument constructors will not compile because they would have the same
signature. Finally, Option C is correct. If a class extends a parent class that does not
include a no-argument constructor, the default no-argument constructor cannot be
automatically inserted into the child class by the compiler. Instead, the developer
must explicitly declare at least one constructor and explicitly define how the call to the
parent constructor is made.

15. C. To solve this problem, it helps to remember that Java is a pass-by-value language in
which copies of primitives and object references are sent to methods. This also means
that an object’s data can be modified within a method and shared with the caller, but
not the reference to the object. Any changes to the object’s reference within the
method are not carried over to the caller. In the slalom() method, the Ski object is
updated with an age value of 18. Although, the last line of the slalom() method
changes the variable value to null, it does not affect the mySkier object or reference in
the main() method. Therefore, the mySkier object is not null and the age variable is set
to 18, making Options A and D incorrect. Next, the name variable is reassigned to the
Wendy object, but this does not change the reference in the main() method, so myName
remains Rosie. Finally, the speed array is assigned a new object and updated. Since the
array is updated after the reference is reassigned, it does not affect the mySpeed array
in the main() method. The result is that mySpeed continues to have a single element
with the default int value of 0. For these reasons, Option B is incorrect, and Option C
is correct.

16. B. Options A and D would not allow the class to compile because two methods in the
class cannot have the same name and arguments, but a different return value. Option
C would allow the class to compile, but it is not a valid overloaded form of our
findAverage() method since it uses a different method name. Option B is a valid
overloaded version of the findAverage() method, since the name is the same but the
argument list differs.

18. A. Option B is incorrect because String values are immutable and cannot be modified.
Options C and D are also incorrect since variables are passed by value, not reference,
in Java. Option A is the correct answer. The contents of an array can be modified when
passed to a method, since a copy of the reference to the object is passed. For example,
the method can change the first element of a non-empty array.

19. B. Option A is not a valid syntax in Java. Option C would be correct if there was a
static import, but the question specifically says there are not any. Option D is almost
correct, since it is a way to call the method, but the question asks for the best way to
call the method. In that regard, Option B is the best way to call the method, since we
are given that two classes are in the same package, therefore the package name would
not be required.

20. D. Options A and B are incorrect because a method with a non-void return type
requires that the method return a value using the return statement. Option C is also
incorrect since a method with a void return type can still call the return command
with no values and exit the method. Therefore, Option D is the correct answer.

21. C. The finish() method modifies two variables that are marked final, score and
result. The score variable is modified by the post-increment ++ operator, while the
result variable is modified by the compound addition += operator. Removing both
final modifiers allows the code to compile. For this reason, Option C is the correct
answer.

24. A. The access modifier of strength is protected, meaning subclasses and classes
within the same package can modify it. Changing the value to private would improve
encapsulation by making the Protect class the only one capable of directly modifying
it. For these reasons, the first statement is correct. Alternatively, the second and third
statements do not improve the encapsulation of the class. While having getters and
setters for private variables is helpful, they are not required. Encapsulation is about
protecting the data elements. With this in mind, it is clear the material variable is
already protected. Therefore, Option A is the correct answer.

31. D. In Java, the lack of an access modifier indicates that the member is package-private,
therefore Option D is correct. Note that the default keyword is used for interfaces and
switch statements, and is not an access modifier.

32. B. The code does not compile, so Option A is incorrect. The class contains two
constructors and one method. The first method, Stars(), looks a lot like a noargument
constructor, but since it has a return value of void, it is a method, not a
constructor. Since only constructors can call super(), the code does not compile due to
this line. The only constructor in this class, which takes an int value as input,
performs a pointless assignment, assigning a variable to itself. While this assignment
has no effect, it does not prevent the code from compiling. Finally, the main() method
compiles without issue since we just inserted the full package name into the class
constructor call. This is how a class that does not use an import statement could call
the constructor. Since the method is in the same class, and therefore the same
package, it is redundant to include the package name but not disallowed. Because only
one line causes the class to fail to compile, Option B is correct.

33. A. An instance method or constructor has access to all static variables, making
Option A correct. On the other hand, static methods and static initializers cannot
reference instance variables since they are defined across all instances, making
Options B and C incorrect. Note that they can access instance variables if they are
passed a reference to a specific instance, but not in the general case. Finally, Option D
is incorrect because static final variables must be set when they are declared or in a
static initialization block.

34. B. The method calculateDistance() requires a return type that can be easily
converted to a short value. Options A, C, and D are incorrect because they each use a
larger data type that requires an explicit cast. Option D also does not compile because
the Short constructor requires an explicit cast to convert the value of 4, which is
assumed to be an int, to a short, as shown in new Short((short)4). Option B is the
correct answer since a byte value can be easily promoted to short and returned by the
method.

36. C. The declaration of monday does not compile, because the value of a static final
variable must be set when it is declared or in a static initialization block. The
declaration of tuesday is fine and compiles without issue. The declaration of
wednesday does not compile because there is no data type for the variable. Finally, the
declaration of thursday does not compile because the final modifier cannot appear
before the access modifier. For these reasons, Option C is the correct answer.

38. A. The public modifier allows access to members in the same class, package, subclass,
or even classes in other packages, while the private modifier allows access only to
members in the same class. Therefore, the public access modifier allows access to
everything the private access modifier does, and more, making Option A the correct
answer. Options B, C, and D are incorrect because the first term is a more restrictive
access modifier than the second term.

39. A. The code compiles without issue, so Option D is incorrect. The key here is that Java
uses pass by value to send object references to methods. Since the Phone reference p
was reassigned in the first line of the sendHome() method, any changes to the p
reference were made to a new object. In other words, no changes in the sendHome()
method affected the object that was passed in. Therefore, the value of size was the
same before and after the method call, making the output 3 and Option A the correct
answer.

43. A. Option A is the correct answer because the first line of a constructor could be
this() or super(), making it an untrue statement. Option B is a true statement
because the compiler will insert the default no-argument constructor if one is not
defined. Option C is also a true statement, since zero or more arguments may be
passed to the parent constructor, if the parent class defines such constructors. Option
D is also true. The value of a final instance variable should be set when it is declared,
in an initialization block, or in a constructor.

46. A. The code compiles without issue, so Option D is incorrect. In the main() method,
the value 2 is first cast to a byte. It is then increased by one using the addition +
operator. The addition + operator automatically promotes all byte and short values to
int. Therefore, the value passed to the choose() in the main() method is an int. The
choose(int) method is called, returning 5 and making Option A the correct answer.
Note that without the addition operation in the main() method, byte would have been
used as the parameter to the choose() method, causing the choose(short) to be
selected as the next closest type and outputting 2, making Option B the correct answer.

47. C. The variable startTime can be automatically converted to Integer by the compiler,
but Integer is not a subclass of Long. Therefore, the code does not compile due the
wrong variable type being passed to the getScore() method on line m2, and Option C is
correct.

50. D. A static import is used to import static members of another class. In this case,
the withdrawal() and deposit() methods in the Bank class are not marked static.
They require an instance of Bank to be used and cannot be imported as static
methods. Therefore, Option D is correct. If the two methods in the Bank class were
marked static, then Option A would be the correct answer since wildcards can be
used with static imports to import more than one method. Option B reverses the
keywords static and import, while Option C incorrectly imports a class, which cannot
be imported via a static import.